initial public doc for Distant JS 1.1 (#2)
Kandy-IO/kandy-distant-js: step-by-step/vdi.md

# Enabling VDI

So far we have been using Distant Web only as a distant agent. Let's see what it takes to enable VDI mode.

## vchannel

The `@distant/vchannel` package is used to communicate over the Citrix Virtual Channel to the distant-vdi remote agent.

> This package contains native bindings to a native C++ library called the Citrix WinFrame Library in order to connect to the channel. This library currently only runs in windows as such this mode is for windows exclusively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This package contains native bindings to a C++ library called the Citrix WinFrame Library in order to connect to the channel. This library currently only runs in Windows; therefore, this mode is for Windows exclusively.
```

Additionally, vchannel can only run in a Node.js process as it is also a Node Add-On.

## Electron processes

> The process model of Electron will inform us on how we will be using the vchannel package. Namely electron consists of a main Node.js based process that manages multiple BrowserWindow processes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The process model of Electron will inform us on how we will be using the vchannel package. Namely, electron consists of a main Node.js based process that manages multiple BrowserWindow processes.
```

So far we have not made clear the location of the code that is responsible for talking to Distant. Now we see that some parts (at least the `vchannel`) must run inside the Node.js main electron process.

## Connecting everything

> Let's first re-state our distant initialization code that we had [previously defined](./starting-small).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's first re-state our Distant initialization code that we had [previously defined](./starting-small).
```

      const channel = await openVirtualChannel('RIBBON')

      // TODO: Return the appropriate connection
      // return connection
    } else {
      return createWebConnection()
    }
  } catch (err) {
    console.error('An error occurred while opening the channel.', err)
  }
}
```

Notice that the function now needs to be asynchronous because opening the channel is a blocking action that returns a promise.

We still have to complete the connection as a vchannel is not in an appropriate format to use with Distant directly.

```javascript {highlight:['7-10']}
async function createDistantConnection(mode) {
  try {
    if (mode === 'vdi') {
      // First we open the channel
      const channel = await openVirtualChannel('RIBBON')

      const pullChannel = createPullChannel(channel, err => {
        // This handler gets called if there was an error in the channel
        console.error(err)
      })

      return pullChannel
    } else {
      return createWebConnection()
    }
  } catch (err) {
    console.error('An error occurred while opening the channel.', err)
  }
}
```

So now we have an appropriate connection type for Distant. Are we done? Not quite.

> Currently VDI requires packetization, this will eventually be built into a package that aggregates vchannel, pull-vchannel and the packetization codec, but in the meantime we have to handle it manually.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Currently, VDI requires packetization. This will eventually be built into a package that aggregates vchannel, pull-vchannel and the packetization codec, but in the meantime we have to handle it manually.
```

```javascript {highlight:['1-3', '16-20']}
import { pull } from 'pull-stream'

const packetization = createPacketizationCodec()

async function createDistantConnection(mode) {
  try {
    if (mode === 'vdi') {
      // First we open the channel. Note that RIBBON is the name of the channel for Distant VDI.
      const channel = await openVirtualChannel('RIBBON')

      const pullChannel = createPullChannel(channel, err => {
        // This handler gets called if there was an error in the channel
        console.error(err)
      })

      // Add packetization to our duplex stream.
      const connection = {
        source: pull(pullChannel.source, packetization.encode),
        sink: pull(packetization.decode, pullChannel.sink)
      }

      return connection
    } else {
      return createWebConnection()
    }
  } catch (err) {
    console.error('An error occurred while opening the channel.', err)
  }
}
```

Finally we have arrived. We've now established a connection to the Distant VDI Remote Agent.

Note that we could improve on the above design in a few ways:

> 1. We could detect the mode and choose VDI always if we're able to create the channel.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. We could detect the mode and always choose VDI if we're able to create the channel.
```

> 2. We could handle errors better. Errors will both be propagated through distant as well as through the pull-vchannel's `done` callback handler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. We could handle errors better. Errors will both be propagated through Distant as well as through the pull-vchannel's `done` callback handler.
```
